# csv-cell-categorizer
A Python script to go through each line of a csv and take user input to parse the categories of a cell, using regular expressions to guess what the categories may be and prompt the user for confirmation or correction. The goal is to make it easier to pull apart a column in a database that may contain inconsistent names (e.g. Bio, Biology, and Biological Science all referring to the same subject) or multiple values (e.g. if a student has more than one favorite subject, but you want to count them independently) so that the data can be read into multiple columns and tracked more easily. This could help with taking a count of information, since it will make the entries consistent. The user input makes the process take time, but it ensures accurate information, and the pattern-matching makes parsing less tedious since the populated defaults reduce the amount of effort needed from the user.

This code, as an example, will use school subjects. It will take in in a csv containing student names and their favorite subjects, and will output a csv containing the input data with up to three new columns added for each of the favorite subjects that were parsed. The program uses regular expressions to parse a single column in the input data. When the regex patterns match in the column, it uses the matched subject to populate the defaults of a dialog box. The user can then alter that dialog box or submit it to record accurate parsing.

# Future Goals
I'm not sure how I would do it yet, but I would like to be able to display a few "nearest matches" for regexes that are not complete matches, but that are close. This would help with typos, which currently aren't detected (e.g. Biolgy will not match) and with ensuring that the user can input the right information.